Part I
Responser: Woody

Question 1.2

For each of the devices and the app you spent a long time using (in Step 3 above)
discuss the answers to the following:
1. How does the app presents information to the user?
  a. Oculus Go: YouTube VR
      YouTube VR presents information to the user by VR videos.
  b. Oculus Quest: Superhot
      The action game Superhot gives game instructions by displaying words near the
      objects to explaining how the user can interact with them.
  c. HTC Vive: Google Earth
      Google Earth is a 3D map that guides the users to travel around the world. It
      presents scenes on Earth

2. How does the app allow the user to interact with it?
  a. Oculus Go: YouTube VR:
      The user can feel submerged in the VR video without physical interactions
      with people or objects in the video.
  b. Oculus Quest: Superhot
      Superhot is an action game that I played on Oculus Quest. The game
      brings the user into a submerging virtual environment, which allows the user
      to walk around, pick tools, and attack enemies.
  c. HTC Vive: Google Earth
      The user is able to fly in this virtual world and transmit through various
      popular cities or locations on Earth. However, everything in this virtual
      Earth is stationary and the user cannot interact with them.

3. Do you feel immersed?  Why or why not?
  a. Oculus Go: Not immersed because the system does not have degree of translational
  freedom.
  b. Oculus Quest: The most immersed device because the headset is light, the system
  detects user's hand and body displacement, and the user does not feel dizzy while
  using it.
  c. HTC Vive: The system is as immersed as Oculus Quest, but the headset is connected
  by wires, which restricts the user's movement and interferes user's VR experience.
  Moreover, the system does not protect the user within a safe boundary.

4. Did you feel any negative physiological responses to using the application
(e.g., nausea, headache, dizziness,...)?  If so, was there something particular
about the app that you think caused it?  Note: If you do feel these things, you
should stop using the headset for a bit and/or sit down while using them.

  I felt a little dizzy after using HTC Vive for more than 10 minutes because the
  scene is not clear if the user does not adjust the headset to the best position.
  All devices are not user-friendly to users wearing glasses.

5. What did the app do well, and what could be improved?

  Generally, all apps are successful to render VR effect, and Oculus Quest and
  HTC Vive is more realistic because of their degrees of translational freedom. Both
  YouTube VR and Google Earth are better if they allow user interaction.

Consider your experiences using the web browsers on the three systems and viewing
the starter webpage for this project.  The Oculus Go's headset and controller both
only have 3 degrees of rotational freedom, and no ability to track translation.
Both the Oculus Quest and HTC Vive have two controllers, and all components have
3 degrees of rotational freedom and 3 degrees of translational freedom.

Answer the following questions:

1. How do you think the limitation in degree of freedom of the devices impacted
the effectiveness of the browser in the Oculus Go versus the other two systems?

  The user cannot see the controller while wearing the headset of Oculus Go, which
  gives troubles to VR beginners because they do not know the function and position
  of each buttons on the controller. The web browser does not move according to user's
  face direction. Therefore, the user should always face in a fixed direction when visiting
  the web browser.

2. How do you think the limitation in degree of freedom of the devices impacted the
effectiveness of the starter Project 1 webpage in the Oculus Go versus the other
two systems?

  In the VR mode of starter Project 1, Oculus Go does not track users’ position
  (both the headset and controller do not have degrees of translational freedom).
  When I am moving, the board in front of me did not become closer, which affects
  the degree of realism of the application. In comparison, Oculus Quest keeps track
  of users’ position, which allows the user to feel immersed when visiting the webpage.

3. Suggest issues that might arise when developing VR applications that work on
multiple different types of devices.

  Because different types of device have different degrees of freedom and number of
  controllers, it is hard for an application to be compatible with both the system
  that have degrees of translational freedom and the system that does not. Moreover,
  Oculus and HTC works on different systems. Therefore, to enable a VR application to
  work on both Oculus and HTC devices, the developers should ensure the application
  have both an Oculus version and an HTC version.

4. Suggest rationale for why developers might focus on devices like the Oculus Go
rather than the HTC Vive.

  The application on Oculus Go is world fixed rather than user fixed because the
  system does not keep track of user’s position, which is easier to implement.
